Migrate "Keeping Discord Bot Tokens Safe" pin (#701)
discord-python/site: pydis_site/apps/content/resources/guides/python-guides/keeping-tokens-safe.md

---
title: Keeping Discord Bot Tokens Safe
description: How to keep your bot tokens safe and safety measures you can take.
---
It's **very** important to keep a bot token safe, primarily because anyone who has the bot token can do whatever they want with the bot -- such as destroying servers your bot has been added to and getting your bot banned from the API.

# How to Avoid Leaking your Token

> To help prevent leaking your token, you should ensure that you don't upload it to an open source program/website, such as replit and github, as they show your code publicly. The best practice for storing tokens is generally utilising .env files ([click here](https://vcokltfre.dev/tips/tokens/.) for more information on storing tokens safely)

Reviewer: It may be best for us to use a different website than this one, due to the website's creator no longer being a part of this org.

Along with that, the we should probably wrap `.env` in a minature code block, shown below.

```suggestion
To help prevent leaking your token, you should ensure that you don't upload it to an open source program/website, such as replit and github, as they show your code publicly. The best practice for storing tokens is generally utilising `.env` files to export [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable#Assignment:_Unix).
```

Reviewer 2: I disagree, it was there because it's a good resource, and it still is, I don't think who created it is that relevant.

Reviewer: Very well.

Reviewer 3: The second point still stands, @Shom770 can you use codelines for `.env`?

Author: > The second point still stands, @Shom770 can you use codelines for `.env`?
What's codelines? I'm a bit lost here.

Reviewer 4: @Shom770 Use backticks ` around .env on line 8

EDIT: line 13

> To help prevent leaking your token, you should ensure that you don't upload it to an open source program/website, such as replit and github, as they show your code publicly. The best practice for storing tokens is generally utilising .env files ([click here](https://vcokltfre.dev/tips/tokens/.) for more information on storing tokens safely)

Reviewer 3: Can you split this into multiple lines somewhere? It is very hard to edit on most editors because they commonly don't wrap.

> To help prevent leaking your token, you should ensure that you don't upload it to an open source program/website, such as replit and github, as they show your code publicly. The best practice for storing tokens is generally utilising .env files ([click here](https://vcokltfre.dev/tips/tokens/.) for more information on storing tokens safely)

Reviewer 3: This is missing a trailing period.

# What should I do if my token does get leaked?

If for whatever reason your token gets leaked, you should immediately follow these steps:
- Go to the list of [Discord Bot Applications](https://discord.com/developers/applications) you have and select the bot application that had the token leaked.

> - Select the Bot (1) tab on the left-hand side, next to a small image of a puzzle piece. After doing so you should see a small section named TOKEN (under your bot USERNAME and next to his avatar image)

Reviewer 3: 1?

Author: In the image, it's labeled as 1.

> - Press the Regenerate option to regen your bot token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Press the Regenerate button to regenerate your bot token and invalidate the old one.
```

> - Press the Regenerate (2) option to regen your bot token.

Reviewer: The copy option is only available once you regenerate the token. On login, said copy button is not available.

```suggestion
- Press the Regenerate option to regen your bot token.
```

> ![Steps to Take to Reset your Discord Bot](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/343944376055103488/845290595793764392/regen_token.png)

Reviewer: This image will need to be updated to show the new layout.

> ![Steps to Take to Reset your Discord Bot](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/859123972884922418/966504639421894697/bot_application.jpg?width=1348&height=671)

Reviewer 3: This should be moved to the site

> Following these steps will create a new token for your bot, making it secure again and terminating any connections from the leaked token.

Reviewer 3: Can we make it fully clear that the old token will stop working and the user needs to replace it locally in their code?
